---
layout: post
title: "Tales"
subtitle: "Published in 1967"
image: /assets/images/tales1.jpg
author: Varun Valada

---
*Tales* by Amiri Baraka was a collection of short stories written in 1967. Tales 
focuses more personally on the story of a Black Man living in White America and
later, a Black Man living in Black America. These two experiences together set
the framework for which Tales tells its narrative.

*Tales* explores several themes are periods of time in a young Black man's life,
perhaps drawing parallels to his own life. One of the stories in *Tales*, "Uncle
Tom's Cabin: Alternate Ending", describes a scene where a young Black boy
answers a question a white teacher asked correctly. While this situation seems
not to have significance at first, Baraka describes a fear, or a doctrine
engrained in Black people to not show their true self in the face of White
people. From the text:

> "One little black boy, raised his hand, and looking at the tip of Miss Orbach's
> nose said 6 1/2...I would have said "No boy, shut up and sit down. You are
> wrong. You don't know anything. Get out of here and be very quick. Have you no 
> idea what you're getting involved in? My God ... you nigger, get out of here
> and save youself, while there's time...""

Despite correctly identifying the correct answer, the narrator instantly assumes
the boy's answer is incorrect and thinks about scolding him for speaking out of
line. Baraka comments on the attitude that Black People would have at the time
of being scared of challenging the status quo or being considered by White
people the stereotype of an "Uppity Negro". Baraka takes the form of someone so
engrained in the social order that they do not want to challenge the social
order.


[Next: Archival Work]({% post_url 2016-4-15-archive %})
